Unless you get circumcised, you cannot get saved.
Well, that's a very strong statement, especially being made almost 14 years after Jehovah
had made clear that he had accepted uncircumcised Gentiles as anointed Christians.
So let's discuss two lessons that we can learn from this account.
A first lesson, do we place our own conditions on others to be saved?
Even how the Gentile Christians felt.
Brothers associated with the governing body of that time said, unless you get circumcised,
you cannot get saved.
As a Gentile brother, you had made great changes in your life and morals to become a Christian.
You gave up the worship of pagan gods and the lifestyle that was associated with that
to be a Christian.
Maybe you endured a lot of family opposition and now you're being told you're not doing
enough.
It must have been very discouraging for them, especially if they already had feelings
that they weren't already doing enough.
The governing body sent a letter that clearly stated what was required for them to be saved.
And look at the reaction of the congregation.
If we look at Acts chapter 15 and verses 30 and 31, here's how the congregation reacted
to this letter.
So when these men were dismissed, they went down to Antioch and they gathered the whole
group together and handed them the letter.
After reading it, they rejoiced over the encouragement.
So how reassured the Gentile Christians must have been to get that letter.
What a lesson for us, not to allow pride or a self-righteous spirit to push us to add
our own requirements for being saved instead of sticking to what Jehovah requires.
Now, it's not just strong words that can make others feel like they're not doing enough.
This can also happen by our actions.
And we have an example of that in Peter's actions because Peter goes to visit Antioch a few
months after the governing body had that meeting on the issue of a circumcision.
If we could look at Galatians chapter 2, verses 11 and 12, the Apostle Paul tells us what
happened.
Galatians 2, 11 and 12, however, when Seifas came to Antioch, I resisted him face to face
because he was clearly in the wrong.
For before certain men from James arrived, he used to eat with the people of the nations.
But when they arrived, he stopped doing this, separated himself, fearing those of the
circumcised class.
Now, it's interesting that the study note on these verses says this, Peter's conduct
could have undermined a decision that the governing body had made in the same year as Peter's
visit about 49 CE.
Now that decision had confirmed that Gentile Christians were not required to obey the
Mazeq law.
And Paul here reviews the incident at Antioch not to embarrass Peter, but to adjust a wrong
view held among the Galatians.
So Peter in this case did not say to people, you must be circumcised.
But by not eating with the Gentile friends, while certain men from James were there, his
actions had a similar chilling effect.
He made the Gentile brothers feel inferior to Jewish Christians that were circumcised.
Now could we make others feel that way?
One sister told us an experience she had on a tour group for an international convention.
Another sister in the same group would ask each person in the group, are you a pioneer?
Now if the person answered yes, she spent time talking to them and getting to know them.
If the person said no, she moved on very quickly.
When the sister came to our sister and asked her, she said she wasn't a pioneer and the
sister moved on quickly.
Our sister said it made her feel awful.
She already felt like she wasn't doing enough to serve Jehovah.
She had been a pioneer, but now she was taking care of her sick parents.
So what is the lesson for us?
By our words or by our actions, we can add our own requirements to being saved, which
can really discourage others.
If we stick, though, to Jehovah's requirements for being saved, we can rejoice along with
our brothers and sisters.
Here's a second lesson.
Do we recognize when we need to take a question or a matter to oversight?
The brothers that told the Gentiles, you must be circumcised in order to be saved, had
really taken it upon themselves to speak for the governing body of that time.
The governing body said in Acts 15 verse 24, be assured that message did not come from
us.
So clearly those brothers did not speak for the governing body.
Now Paul and Barnabas were faced with the same question about circumcision.
Did they make the same mistake and take it upon themselves to speak for the governing body?
To assist Paul to handle the matter correctly, his overseer, Jesus, provided some direction.
In Galatians chapter 2 and verse 2, the Apostle Paul says that he took the matter to Jerusalem
as a result of a revelation.
And again, if you look at the study note on Galatians chapter 2 and verse 2, it says this,
Paul here adds a detail not found in Luke's account in the book of Acts.
Christ, as the head of the Christian congregation, apparently used a revelation to direct Paul to
bring the important issue of circumcision to the Apostles and elders in Jerusalem.
Yes, Jesus directed Paul to work through the governing body.
Now I suppose Jesus could have simply told Paul in the revelation, Paul, you understand
it correctly, just go ahead and handle it.
And I'm sure Paul would have thought that would be a lot easier.
I don't have to go all the way to Jerusalem.
I don't have to deal with all those other brothers that have these strong views about circumcision.
But rather, Jesus was training Paul and others how he wanted questions like this to
be handled through the governing body.
Jesus did not bypass the arrangement that he had set up.
And the fact that Jesus handled the matter this way back then sets an example for us today
of how Jesus expects his modern day organization to work as well.
So we might ask, do we recognize when we need to take a question or a matter to a higher
authority?
Well, it's not always easy, is it?
When I decide this one on my own, or do I need to ask?
Proverbs 13, 10 says, Presumptiousness leads only to strife, but wisdom belongs to those
who seek advice.
Wives have to decide, can I make this decision on my own, or do I need to take it to my
husband?
Elders, can they make this decision on their own or take it to the body of elders?
Body of elders need to take it to the circuit overseer, to the branch office, and so on
it goes.
I'm sure we have all had moments where we've made a decision, or sometimes we're about
to take action, and someone says to us, did you ask oversight about that?
Well, no.
Don't you think we should?
Yeah, that would be a great idea.
See those are learning experiences.
By experience and training, we learn what things we can and should handle, and what things
need to be taken to our oversight.
So in review, our first lesson, by our words or actions, we can add our own requirements
for being saved, which can really discourage others.
However, if we stick to Jehovah's requirements for being saved, we can rejoice along with
our brothers and sisters.
In our second lesson, like Paul, be obedient, be ready to be trained in how to handle matters
according to theocratic direction.